Blueberry Lemon Bars & Cream Cheese Frosting

Ingredients:

1 Can of Blueberry Pie Filling

1 Whole Egg

2 Egg Whites

1 Box Lemon Cake Mix

For the Frosting:

8 oz (1 package) Philadelphia Cream Cheese – Softened

1/4 Cup (1/2 stick) Butter – Softened

1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract

4 Cups (about 16 oz or 1 package) Powdered Sugar – Sifted

Directions:

Preheat oven to 350 Degrees. Butter and sugar a 13 x 9 inch baking pan and set aside.

In a medium sized bowl, combine pie filling, egg, and egg whites, then add cake mix and stir until combined. (I always mean to sift mine, but I usually forget, and you don’t have to, it would just make this part easier.)

Spread the thick batter into the prepared baking pan using the back of a spoon and bake for 45 minutes. If you’re worried it’s not done, poke it with a toothpick. If nothing glossy comes out on the toothpick you’re good. Alternatively (my method), lightly press the cake with your fingertip, it will spring back like a sponge if it’s done instead of leaving a depression.
Remove from pan and cool completely on a wire rack before frosting.

For the frosting:

In a large bowl, mix cream cheese, butter, and vanilla until combined.
Add sugar a little (about a cup or so) at a time and mix until desired texture is reached.

Keep refrigerated – and make sure your cake is cool before frosting or this stuff will melt right off of it!

Cheesecake Filling:

16 oz (2 packages) Philadelphia Cream Cheese – Softened

1/2 Cup Granulated Sugar

1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract

2 Whole Eggs

In a medium bowl, combine cream cheese and sugar until smooth (I mean, it’ll be grainy because of the sugar, but you know, no cream cheese lumps)

In a separate bowl, beat together vanilla extract and eggs, then add to the cream cheese mixture and stir until combined.

If you’re going to use in this cake, spread half of the cake batter in the bottom of the pan, then all of the filling on top of that with about 1/2 inch border – not flush with the sides of the pan (Not a dealbreaker, just… not as messy). Then spread the remaining cake batter over the top and bake as usual. Keep in mind, if you’re a toothpick checking person, that it’s pretty likely you’ll get some filling on the pick. Don’t panic unless your oven doesn’t work.

Recommended baking time for this stuff is 30-40 minutes and you’ll be at least 45 for the cake.

Notes:

I’m a purist about the cream cheese, I only use Philly, but I won’t judge you if you don’t tell me you used something else. I’ve also seen premade cheesecake filling but I’ve never tried it so I couldn’t attest to its quality or flavor.

Also – you gotta love a three-ingredient recipe that’s tweakable, right? Make crumbs and add cheesecake filling for coffee cake, or take the basic idea and make apple or peach versions.
